# note

## backtrack 

https://leetcode.com/explore/learn/card/recursion-ii/472/backtracking/2793/

- backtrack template from leetcode

```
def backtrack(candidate):
  if find_solution(candidate):
    output(candidate)
    return None
    
  # iterate all possible candidates.
  for next_candidate in list_of_candidates:
    if is_valid(next_candidate):
      # try this partial candidate solution
      place(next_candidate)
      # given the candidate, explore further.
      backtrack(next_candidate)
      # backtrack
      remove(next_candidate)

def main():
  # define global variables.
  # call backtrack subroutine.
```

Q0037 soduku solver
Q0052 n-queens ii
Q0077 combiantions
Q0489 robot room cleaner

## catalan number

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_number

In combinatorial mathematics, the Catalan numbers form a sequence of natural numbers that occur in various counting problems, often involving recursively defined objects. They are named after the Belgian mathematician Eugene Charles Catalan (1814–1894).

The nth Catalan number is given directly in terms of binomial coefficients by
c_n = math.comb(2n, n)/ (n + 1) = math.factorial(2n) / (math.factorial(n + 1) * math.factorial(n)) = \prod_{k=2}^{n} ((n + k) / k), n >= 0

The first Catalan numbers for n = 0, 1, 2, 3, ... are 1, 1, 2, 5, 14, 42, 132, 429, 1430, 4862, 16796, 58786, ..

The Catalan numbers satisfy the recurrence relations:
c_0 = 1, c_{n+1} = \sum_{i=0}^{n} c_i*c_{n - i} = 2(2n + 1) / (n + 2) * c_n, n >= 0

Asymptotically, the Catalan numbers grow as Cn ~ 4^{n} / (n^{3/2} * \sqrt(\pi)), in the sense that the quotient of the nth Catalan number and the expression on the right tends towards 1 as n approaches infinity. This can be proved by using Stirling's approximation for n! or via generating functions.

Applications:
- Cn is the number of Dyck words of length 2n. A Dyck word is a string consisting of n X's and n Y's such that no initial segment of the string has more Y's than X's, e.g., XYXXYY.
- Cn counts the number of expressions containing n pairs of parentheses which are correctly matched, X -> (, Y -> ).
- Cn is the number of different ways n + 1 factors can be completely parenthesized (or the number of ways of associating n applications of a binary operator)
- Successive applications of a binary operator can be represented in terms of a full binary tree.
- Cn is the number of non-isomorphic ordered (or plane) trees with n + 1 vertices.
- Cn is the number of monotonic lattice paths along the edges of a grid with n × n square cells, which do not pass above the diagonal. A monotonic path is one which starts in the lower left corner, finishes in the upper right corner, and consists entirely of edges pointing rightwards or upwards. Counting such paths is equivalent to counting Dyck words: X stands for "move right" and Y stands for "move up".
- A convex polygon with n + 2 sides can be cut into triangles by connecting vertices with non-crossing line segments (a form of polygon triangulation). The number of triangles formed is n and the number of different ways that this can be achieved is Cn.
- Cn is the number of stack-sortable permutations of {1, ..., n}. A permutation w is called stack-sortable if S(w) = (1, ..., n), where S(w) is defined recursively as follows: write w = unv where n is the largest element in w and u and v are shorter sequences, and set S(w) = S(u)S(v)n, with S being the identity for one-element sequences.
- Cn is the number of permutations of {1, ..., n} that avoid the permutation pattern 123 (or, alternatively, any of the other patterns of length 3); that is, the number of permutations with no three-term increasing subsequence. For n = 3, these permutations are 132, 213, 231, 312 and 321. For n = 4, they are 1432, 2143, 2413, 2431, 3142, 3214, 3241, 3412, 3421, 4132, 4213, 4231, 4312 and 4321.
- Cn is the number of noncrossing partitions of the set {1, ..., n}. A fortiori, Cn never exceeds the nth Bell number. Cn is also the number of noncrossing partitions of the set {1, ..., 2n} in which every block is of size 2. The conjunction of these two facts may be used in a proof by mathematical induction that all of the free cumulants of degree more than 2 of the Wigner semicircle law are zero. This law is important in free probability theory and the theory of random matrices.
- Cn is the number of ways to tile a stairstep shape of height n with n rectangles.
- Cn is the number of ways to form a "mountain range" with n upstrokes and n downstrokes that all stay above a horizontal line. The mountain range interpretation is that the mountains will never go below the horizon.
- Cn is the number of standard Young tableaux whose diagram is a 2-by-n rectangle. In other words, it is the number of ways the numbers 1, 2, ..., 2n can be arranged in a 2-by-n rectangle so that each row and each column is increasing. As such, the formula can be derived as a special case of the hook-length formula.
- Cn is the number of ways that the vertices of a convex 2n-gon can be paired so that the line segments joining paired vertices do not intersect. This is precisely the condition that guarantees that the paired edges can be identified (sewn together) to form a closed surface of genus zero (a topological 2-sphere).
- Cn is the number of semiorders on n unlabeled items.
- In chemical engineering Cn−1 is the number of possible separation sequences which can separate a mixture of n components.

Q0096 num of unique bst
Q0241 add parentheses
Q1259 no cross handshakes

## disjoint set union, union find

https://leetcode.com/articles/redundant-connection/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disjoint-set_data_structure

//src/config/dsu.py
-> path compression, union by rank and etc.

Q0200 num of islands
Q0305 num of islands
Q0684 redundant connection
Q0694 num distinct islands
Q0695 max area via islands
Q0711 num of distinct islands
Q0737 sentence similarity
Q0785 couples hold hands
Q0827 make largest island
Q0839 similar str groups
Q0990 satisfiability of equality equations
Q1061 smallest lexicographically equivalent str
Q1102 max min path
Q1254 num closed islands
Q1391 check valid path
Q1568 min num disconnect islands
Q1632 rank transformation matrix

## bit operation tricks

https://leetcode.com/tag/bit-manipulation/

https://leetcode.com/problems/sum-of-two-integers/discuss/84278/A-summary%3A-how-to-use-bit-manipulation-to-solve-problems-easily-and-efficiently

- convert bin str to dec: int('1100000', 2) -> 96
- convert dec to bin str: bin(96) -> '0b1100000'

- set bit: x |= 1 << i
- clear bit: x &= ~(1 << i)
- test bit: (x & (1 << i)) != 0

- remove last bit, set rightmost 1 to 0: n&(n-1)
- extract last bit: n&-n or n&~(n-1) or n^(n&(n-1))

- count num of 1s in binary representation of the given num
```
def count_one (n):
  count = 0
  while n:
    n &= n - 1
    count += 1
  return count
```

- power of 4
```
def power4 (n):
  # 1-bit and check the 1-bit location
  return (not (n & (n - 1))) and bool(n & 0x55555555)
```

Q0078 subsets
Q0136 single num
Q0137 single num
Q0201 Brian Kernighan's Algorithm, http://graphics.stanford.edu/~seander/bithacks.html#CountBitsSetKernighan
Q0231 power of 2
Q0338 count bits
Q0342 power of 4
Q0371 sum of two integers using bit operation
Q0389 find the difference
Q0461 hamming distance
Q0477 total hamming distance
Q1310 xor queries of a subarray
Q1542 find longest awesome substr
Q1611 min one bit operations to make integers zero

## topological sort via dfs/bfs

https://class.coursera.org/algo-003/lecture/52

Q0207


### Boyer-Moore Majority Vote algorithm

0169, 0229
https://gregable.com/2013/10/majority-vote-algorithm-find-majority.html

### find median with worst case O(N)

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Median_of_medians

### Knuth-Morris-Pratt (KMP) Algorithm: Palindrome

0028, 0214, 0336

### Floyd–Warshall algorithm

0399
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floyd%E2%80%93Warshall_algorithm

### Huffman's algorithm

1167, 1199

### stack

0042, 0084, 0496, 0503, 0856, 0901, 0907, 1130, 1190

### sliding window

0209, 0862, 0904, 0930, 0992, 1004, 1234, 1248, 1358

### binary index tree

https://www.hackerearth.com/practice/notes/binary-indexed-tree-or-fenwick-tree/
support update and prefix sum both in O(logN), simpler and faster than segment tree

1649

### submask enumeration

https://cp-algorithms.com/algebra/all-submasks.html

Given a bitmask m, you want to efficiently iterate through all of its submasks, that is, masks s in which only bits that were included in mask m are set.

Consider the implementation of this algorithm, based on tricks with bit operations:
```
for (int s=m; s; s=(s-1)&m)
 ... you can use s ...
```
Let us examine why the above code visits all submasks of m, without repetition, and in descending order.


In many problems, especially those that use bitmask dynamic programming, you want to iterate through all bitmasks and for each mask, iterate through all of its submasks:
```
for (int m=0; m<(1<<n); ++m)
    for (int s=m; s; s=(s-1)&m)
 ... s and m ...
```
Let's prove that the inner loop will execute a total of O(3^n) iterations.

## TODO

0630

review: correct almost right bst

0236

0056, 0057, 0715, 0729, 0731, 0732
range module, add/del intervals and maintain a set of disjoint intervals.

## misc

https://leetcode.wang/
